Docs: User guide overhaul, part 4 (#69266)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/user_guide/playbooks_delegation.rst

.. _playbooks_delegation:

Delegation and local actions
============================

By default Ansible executes all tasks on the machines that match the ``hosts`` line of your playbook. If you want to run some tasks on a different machine, you can use delegation. For example, when updating webservers, you might want to retrieve information from your database servers. In this scenario, your play would target the webservers group and you would delegate the database tasks to your dbservers group. With delegation, you can perform a task on one host on behalf of another, or execute tasks locally on behalf of remote hosts.

.. contents::
   :local:

Tasks that cannot be delegated
------------------------------

Some tasks always execute on the controller. These tasks, including ``include``, ``add_host``, and ``debug``, cannot be delegated.

.. _delegation:

Delegating tasks
----------------

> If you want to perform a task on one host with reference to other hosts, use the 'delegate_to' keyword on a task. This is ideal for managing nodes in a load balanced pool or for controlling outage windows. You can use delegation with the :ref:`serial <rolling_update_batch_size>` keyword to control the number of hosts executing at one time::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to perform a task on one host with reference to other hosts, use the ``delegate_to`` keyword on a task. This is ideal for managing nodes in a load balanced pool or for controlling outage windows. You can use delegation with the :ref:`serial <rolling_update_batch_size>` keyword to control the number of hosts executing at one time::
```

          command: /usr/bin/add_back_to_pool {{ inventory_hostname }}
          delegate_to: 127.0.0.1

> The first and third tasks in this play run on 127.0.0.1, which is the machine running Ansible. There is also a shorthand syntax that you can use on a per-task basis: 'local_action'. Here is the same playbook as above, but using the shorthand syntax for delegating to 127.0.0.1::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first and third tasks in this play run on 127.0.0.1, which is the machine running Ansible. There is also a shorthand syntax that you can use on a per-task basis: ``local_action``. Here is the same playbook as above, but using the shorthand syntax for delegating to 127.0.0.1::
```

As always with delegation, the action will be executed on the delegated host, but the information is still that of the original host in the task.

.. note::

>      When used together with "serial", tasks marked as "run_once" will be run on one host in *each* serial batch. If the task must run only once regardless of "serial" mode, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     When used together with ``serial``, tasks marked as ``run_once`` will be run on one host in *each* serial batch. If the task must run only once regardless of ``serial`` mode, use
```
